

--- Page 1 ---
TERMS AND CONDITIONS 1. Introduction This document outlines the Terms and Conditions for the use of the Compliance Institute of South Africa's website (hereinafter referred to as "the Website"). The Website is owned and operated by the Compliance Institute of South Africa (hereinafter referred to as "the Institute"). By accessing and using the Website, you indicate your acknowledgement and acceptance of these Terms and Conditions. If you do not agree to abide by these Terms and Conditions, please do not use this Website. 2. Definitions In this document, "User," "You," and "Your" refer to any individual who uses this Website. 3. Information on the Website While every effort is made to update the information contained on this Website, neither the Institute nor any third party or data or content provider make any representations or warranties, whether express or implied, as to the sequence, accuracy, completeness or reliability of information, opinions, data and/or content contained on the Website. 4. Intellectual Property The trademarks, names, logos and service marks (collectively "trademarks") displayed on this Website are registered and unregistered trademarks of the Institute. Nothing contained on this Website should be construed as granting any license or right to use any trademark without the prior written permission of the Institute. 5. External Links External links may be provided for your convenience, but they are beyond the control of the Institute and no representation is made as to their content. Use or reliance on any external links provided is at your own risk. 6. Public Forums and User Submissions The Institute is not responsible for any material submitted to the public areas by you (which include bulletin boards, hosted pages, chat rooms, or any other public area found on the Website). 7. Specific Use You agree not to use the Website to send or post any message or material that is unlawful, harassing, defamatory, abusive, indecent, threatening, harmful, vulgar, obscene, sexually oriented, racially offensive, profane, pornographic or violates any applicable law. 8. Disclaimer of Liability The Institute shall not be responsible for and disclaims all liability for any loss, liability, damage (whether direct, indirect or consequential), personal injury or expense of any nature whatsoever which may be suffered by you or any third party, as a result of or which may be attributable, directly or indirectly, to your access and use of the Website. 9. Governing Law These Terms and Conditions shall be governed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the Republic of South Africa. Your continued use of the Website will signify your acceptance of any adjustment to these terms. 10. Changes to These Terms The Institute reserves the right to modify, add or remove portions of these Terms and Conditions at any time and such changes will become effective immediately upon being posted on the Website. It's your responsibility to review these Terms and Conditions periodically for changes. 11. Contact Information


--- Page 2 ---
If you have any questions or concerns about these Terms and Conditions, please contact us at: Compliance Institute of South Africa Grayston Ridge Office Park Block B, Lower Ground Floor Office 144 Katherine Street, Sandton, Gauteng 2146 South Africa enquiries@compliancesa.com 011 642 7974 Acknowledgement and Acceptance By using the Website, you acknowledge that you have read these Terms and Conditions and agree to comply with and be bound by them. Last updated: 16 May 2023